it's not just food that monkeys collect
from the forest these two bunches of
leaves may look very much the same but
this kind is used by the local people as
an antiseptic they also use it as an
insect repellent whereas this one has no
medicinal qualities at all if I put them
both down here I think I know which the
monkeys will choose
those are Piper leaves the ones with the
insect repelling SAP Piper is usually
hard to find so this big bunch will
cause a lot of excitement
like many things in monkey life
Piper rubbing is a major social event
those taking part disregard the
differences they might have had at other
times and everyone joins in the party
do these Capuchin really know that this
behavior protects some against skin
infections and mosquitoes well of course
it's impossible to say but it is the
case that they do it more frequently
during rainy season when they're more
skin infections and mosquitoes around
than any other time during the year
not all cabouchins you Piper but once an
individual discovers the plants
properties the knowledge quickly spreads
so Piper leaf rubbing becomes a group
tradition